In this video and the next two, I want to revisit a couple of topics that look innocent on an exam
question but are loaded with implications.
Let's start by looking at trace it for a moment.
You will hopefully remember that this set is ordered using natural ordering.
Its elements are required to implement comparable if the method is used.
But you can reconfigure this by passing a comparator to the constructor or trace it.
This can be deceptive if you say it on an exam question.
So now that together we've reviewed Co-operator incomparable side by side, let's walk through a couple
of examples in code.
But in the collections project, we need to create a new class.
But of course, one tree examples.
Postcode in.
But this code consists of a tree element class, which consists of an ID and value, which is the item
that I want to sort.
I implement both comparable and to here with a comparable implementation is by natural order ascending
numerically by ID.
And the comparator order is by value to sending.
We could see that using the to method there for comparable that compare to natural order and the copyrighter
compare method the orders by valley descending.
Assuming for now the valley is not now and you can see the code on line thirty two.
So the three examples classes misquoted further and the main method.
Sets up some testator, a list of some tree element instances and prints out the set noted the tree
was instantiated by passing the test data to the constructor.
I also print the element considered lower than the element containing the same there.
In its first instance, the element with a lot less than Samms ID will be printed.
So let's actually run the code.
And as you can see from the output, it confirms that in both instances, elements were ordered numerically
and in ascending order, the element lower than Sam in the sword as Mary is it directly less than Sam's
wrath.
So next, instead of passing the test data to the constructor, what I want to do is use comparative
comparing to pass a comparative based on a method in every element.
And that that, I repeat, the operator comparing method in a comparative comparable video in this section
of the course need to make a change specific.
I'm going to make a change.
To line sixty two, it's going to replace that.
With this code.
Nothing done exactly what I've mentioned, I've passed a comparator to comparing mythical to our three
sets constructor if we run this.
This had no effect on the output, what it was like previously.
Here what I'm doing is passing a comparator on the constructor and not a list of data.
I'm adding the data.
Is it the add all method following the constructor of the trace it.
All right, so let's try reversing the order now, going to alter the constructor.
Are we going to do is come up here to our contract to call after the garage, drop parentheses and do
a call to reverse idot the first.
So basically I'm changing the reverse method to the operator bitrate using the comparing method.
And if you run this now.
He can see the orders descending ID and that the element considered lower than the same element has
changed to be Carol's element.
So let's have a look at altering the constructor again to change trace element.
Instead of it, we're going to get value.
And they could say, look, we've got a different result here because we're using get value instead
of Jered using the constructor with Co-operator, comparing makes it obvious that I'm using a different
sorting mechanism than the natural order, for example.
But consider what happens if it is something like the following, a change that line completely.
Sixty two to sixty four make this.
This might look like I'm instantiating the tree set with a single element, but this is not the case
because tree element implements co-operator passing.
The first element of the test data list is simply passing a comparator to the trace it and not populating
the trace it with any elements of this, bearing in mind we've still got to trace it at all on line
63.
The airport confirms that the order used was determined by the tree element to compare method, which
happens to be the same as what we had previously using DOT reversed.
And just to confirm what's going on there, if I remove the ad all along.
Sixty three or commented out.
Run the code again now.
And you can see the output now, any shows, no, and there's no other test data.
Well, it's not do that change.
So back to Kyra, that does actually show the elements.
So the tracer constructors are shown in this table, so we've got the first construct, the no trace
at constructor constructs a new empty tree set sorted according to the natural order of its elements.
The next contract was part of the collection.
So this constructs a new tracer containing the elements in the specified collection, sorted according
to the natural ordering of its elements.
The next one is trace it with a comparator pass to it.
This constructs a new empty trace.
It sorted according to the specified comparator.
The last one passing a sort of set to the constructor, constructs a new trace containing the same elements
and using the same ordering as the specified sorted set.
The lesson here is to review any sample code around constructors very carefully, collections do not
accept single data elements in the constructor, but single elements can be passed using static methods
such as list travel arrays, not as list, for example.
Also, make sure there is a constructor, for example.
Consider the code below the following two sets are quite different.
The first is immutable.
The second is not.
So adding an element to first set throws an exception.
If you read this code, this is the exception you see on screen in the video here in the next one,
I want to revisit wrappers and generics.
See you in the next video.